README.md, before:

# (replace-me: Exercise title)

_(replace-me: One-line description of the exercise)_

## Welcome

- **Who is this for**: (replace-me: Target audience description)
- **What you'll learn**: (replace-me: Learning objectives)
- **What you'll build**: (replace-me: Description of what the learner will create)
- **Prerequisites**:
  - (replace-me: Prerequisite skill/exercise)
  - (replace-me: Other prerequisites)

- **How long**: This exercise takes less than (replace-me: estimated time) to complete.

In this exercise, you will:

1. (replace-me: Learning objective step #1)
1. (replace-me: Learning objective step #2)
1. (replace-me: Learning objective step #N)


### How to start this exercise

Simply copy the exercise to your account, then give your favorite Octocat (Mona) **about 20 seconds** to prepare the first lesson, then **refresh the page**.

<!--  (replace-me: Make sure to edit the URL with proper template_owner, template_name, repo name and description)  -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Copy%20Exercise-%E2%86%92-1f883d?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&labelColor=197935)](https://github.com/new?template_owner=skills&template_name=exercise-template&owner=%40me&name=skills-<replace-me>&description=Exercise:+Replace+me&visibility=public)

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

When copying the exercise, we recommend the following settings:

- For owner, choose your personal account or an organization to host the repository.

- We recommend creating a public repository, since private repositories will use Actions minutes.

If the exercise isn't ready in 20 seconds, please check the [Actions](../../actions) tab.

- Check to see if a job is running. Sometimes it simply takes a bit longer.

- If the page shows a failed job, please submit an issue. Nice, you found a bug! 🐛

</details>

---

&copy; 2025 GitHub &bull; [Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/code_of_conduct.md) &bull; [MIT License](https://gh.io/mit)

Commit message:

Bootstrapped from outline with cwb changes and gpt5

README.md, after:

# AI in Actions

_Learn how to integrate AI models directly into your GitHub Actions workflows using GitHub Models._

## Welcome

- **Who is this for**: Developers with intermediate GitHub Actions experience who want to incorporate AI capabilities into their workflows
- **What you'll learn**: How to use GitHub Models service to add AI inference to GitHub Actions workflows, create dynamic AI-powered automation, and combine AI with other GitHub Actions
- **What you'll build**: GitHub Actions workflows that use AI models to perform intelligent tasks, including an automated issue analysis system that suggests similar existing issues
- **Prerequisites**:
  - Basic understanding of GitHub Actions workflows and YAML syntax
  - Completion of "Hello GitHub Actions" exercise
  - Familiarity with GitHub issues and repository management

- **How long**: This exercise takes less than 1 hour to complete.

In this exercise, you will:

1. Set up a basic AI inference workflow with proper permissions
1. Enhance workflows with dynamic context by parameterizing AI prompts with user inputs and workflow data
1. Combine AI inference with other GitHub Actions to create intelligent automation workflows


### How to start this exercise

Simply copy the exercise to your account, then give your favorite Octocat (Mona) **about 20 seconds** to prepare the first lesson, then **refresh the page**.

<!--  (replace-me: Make sure to edit the URL with proper template_owner, template_name, repo name and description)  -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Copy%20Exercise-%E2%86%92-1f883d?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&labelColor=197935)](https://github.com/new?template_owner=skills&template_name=ai-in-actions&owner=%40me&name=skills-ai-in-actions&description=Exercise:+AI+in+Actions&visibility=public)

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

When copying the exercise, we recommend the following settings:

- For owner, choose your personal account or an organization to host the repository.

- We recommend creating a public repository, since private repositories will use Actions minutes.

If the exercise isn't ready in 20 seconds, please check the [Actions](../../actions) tab.

- Check to see if a job is running. Sometimes it simply takes a bit longer.

- If the page shows a failed job, please submit an issue. Nice, you found a bug! 🐛

</details>

---

&copy; 2025 GitHub &bull; [Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/code_of_conduct.md) &bull; [MIT License](https://gh.io/mit)
