.github/steps/2-step.md, before:

## Step 2: Composing AI Workflows

Great work! Your first AI workflow is now functional. Next, let's see how to combine the `ai-inference` action with other actions to create meaningful AI workflows for your projects.

### 📖 Theory: Composing AI Workflows

AI adds the most value in Actions when you connect three sequential processes to create intelligent automation:

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[🔍 Context Gathering] --> B[🤖 AI Processing]
    B --> C[🚀 Applying Results]

    style A fill:#4fc3f7,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
    style B fill:#ffb74d,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
    style C fill:#ba68c8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
```

Here's how this workflow pattern works:

1. **🔍 Context Gathering**: Use GitHub Actions to collect data from [event context](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/contexts#github-context), file contents, API results, or outputs from previous workflow steps
1. **🤖 AI Processing**: Feed the gathered context into `actions/ai-inference` with a focused [system prompt](https://github.com/actions/ai-inference#system-prompts) that defines the AI's role and expected output format.
1. **🚀 Applying Results**: Use the AI's response as input to another action that creates meaningful change such as posting comments, updating files or creating release notes

This three-step pattern keeps workflows maintainable while automating judgment-heavy tasks that would be difficult to script with traditional logic.

### ⌨️ Activity: Create an automated AI issue analysis workflow

Let's build a workflow that will automatically analyze newly created GitHub issues, providing immediate feedback about missing information, suggesting improvements, and asking clarifying questions.

We'll follow the three-step pattern: gathering context from issue events, processing with AI, and posting results as comments.

1. Create a new workflow file named:

   ```text
   issue-completeness.yml
   ```

1. Add the workflow metadata and permissions

   ```yaml
   name: Issue Completeness

   on:
     issues:
       types: [opened]

   permissions:
     models: read
     issues: write
   ```

   This workflow will run whenever a new issue is opened with the permissions to access GitHub Models and to write new issue comments.

   > ❗ **Caution:** Copy the contents as provided, as this exact workflow name (`Issue Completeness`) is required to progress to next steps of this exercise.

1. Now we'll create a job that uses the AI inference action.

   In this scenario we want to analyze the issue content to provide intelligent feedback and recommendations:

   GitHub Actions automatically provides us with [rich context](https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks/webhook-events-and-payloads?actionType=opened#issues) through the `github.event` object whenever an issue is opened. This includes the issue title, body content, and author information—exactly the data `ai-inference` needs to provide intelligent analysis.

   ```yaml
   jobs:
     analyze:
       name: AI Issue Completeness
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: Analyze issue with AI
           id: ai-response
           uses: actions/ai-inference@v2
           with:
             token: {% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}
             max-tokens: 1000
             system-prompt: |
               You are a GitHub issue assistant. Your task is to analyze newly opened issues for completeness.

               Provide concise, helpful suggestions, ask clarifying questions and identify any missing information that would help resolve the issue faster.

               Always respond with ready-to-use markdown content (no code blocks) that can be posted directly as an issue comment.

               Sign off as AI assistant.
             prompt: |
               New issue was opened by {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.user.login }}{% endraw %}
               Title: {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.title }}{% endraw %}
               Body:
               ---
               {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.body }}{% endraw %}
               ---
   ```

   > 🪧 **Note:** The **`max-tokens`** parameter is used to control the maximum length of the response. Low values could mean the response is cut off halway.

1. Now let's add a step that will post the issue comment using the `ai-inference` `response` output:

   ```yaml
   - name: Comment results on the issue
     uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v4
     with:
       token: {% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}
       issue-number: {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.number }}{% endraw %}
       body: {% raw %}${{ steps.ai-response.outputs.response }}{% endraw %}

   ```

1. And we're done! Commit the file directly to the `main` branch, then open the **Actions** tab and confirm the workflow appears.

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

- If the action does not appear in the **Actions** tab verify you put it in `.github/workflows/` directory with `.yml` extension

</details>

### ⌨️ Activity: Test the workflow

1. Navigate to the Issues tab and click **New issue**.
1. Create an issue with any title and body you'd like, or use these examples:

   **Title example:**

   ```text
   Login form throwing 500 errors on mobile
   ```

   **Body example:**

   ```markdown
   Getting 500 errors when trying to log in on my phone. It works sometimes but not always.
   ```

1. As you create the issue, you observe your workflow running in the **Actions** tab.
1. When the workflow completes, you should see a new comment on the issue with the AI Issue analysis.

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

- If the workflow didn’t run, confirm the trigger is `issues: [opened]` and you created a new issue (not edited an existing one).
- If the workflow failed to parse, check that the YAML indentation is correct and that all required fields are present.

</details>

Commit message:

fix: add important note on step indentation for clarity

.github/steps/2-step.md, after:

## Step 2: Composing AI Workflows

Great work! Your first AI workflow is now functional. Next, let's see how to combine the `ai-inference` action with other actions to create meaningful AI workflows for your projects.

### 📖 Theory: Composing AI Workflows

AI adds the most value in Actions when you connect three sequential processes to create intelligent automation:

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[🔍 Context Gathering] --> B[🤖 AI Processing]
    B --> C[🚀 Applying Results]

    style A fill:#4fc3f7,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
    style B fill:#ffb74d,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
    style C fill:#ba68c8,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px,color:#000
```

Here's how this workflow pattern works:

1. **🔍 Context Gathering**: Use GitHub Actions to collect data from [event context](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/contexts#github-context), file contents, API results, or outputs from previous workflow steps
1. **🤖 AI Processing**: Feed the gathered context into `actions/ai-inference` with a focused [system prompt](https://github.com/actions/ai-inference#system-prompts) that defines the AI's role and expected output format.
1. **🚀 Applying Results**: Use the AI's response as input to another action that creates meaningful change such as posting comments, updating files or creating release notes

This three-step pattern keeps workflows maintainable while automating judgment-heavy tasks that would be difficult to script with traditional logic.

### ⌨️ Activity: Create an automated AI issue analysis workflow

Let's build a workflow that will automatically analyze newly created GitHub issues, providing immediate feedback about missing information, suggesting improvements, and asking clarifying questions.

We'll follow the three-step pattern: gathering context from issue events, processing with AI, and posting results as comments.

1. Create a new workflow file named:

   ```text
   issue-completeness.yml
   ```

1. Add the workflow metadata and permissions

   ```yaml
   name: Issue Completeness

   on:
     issues:
       types: [opened]

   permissions:
     models: read
     issues: write
   ```

   This workflow will run whenever a new issue is opened with the permissions to access GitHub Models and to write new issue comments.

   > ❗ **Caution:** Copy the contents as provided, as this exact workflow name (`Issue Completeness`) is required to progress to next steps of this exercise.

1. Now we'll create a job that uses the AI inference action.

   In this scenario we want to analyze the issue content to provide intelligent feedback and recommendations:

   GitHub Actions automatically provides us with [rich context](https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks/webhook-events-and-payloads?actionType=opened#issues) through the `github.event` object whenever an issue is opened. This includes the issue title, body content, and author information—exactly the data `ai-inference` needs to provide intelligent analysis.

   ```yaml
   jobs:
     analyze:
       name: AI Issue Completeness
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
         - name: Analyze issue with AI
           id: ai-response
           uses: actions/ai-inference@v2
           with:
             token: {% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}
             max-tokens: 1000
             system-prompt: |
               You are a GitHub issue assistant. Your task is to analyze newly opened issues for completeness.

               Provide concise, helpful suggestions, ask clarifying questions and identify any missing information that would help resolve the issue faster.

               Always respond with ready-to-use markdown content (no code blocks) that can be posted directly as an issue comment.

               Sign off as AI assistant.
             prompt: |
               New issue was opened by {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.user.login }}{% endraw %}
               Title: {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.title }}{% endraw %}
               Body:
               ---
               {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.body }}{% endraw %}
               ---
   ```

   > 🪧 **Note:** The **`max-tokens`** parameter is used to control the maximum length of the response. Low values could mean the response is cut off halway.

1. Now let's add a step that will post the issue comment using the `ai-inference` `response` output:

   ```yaml
   - name: Comment results on the issue
     uses: peter-evans/create-or-update-comment@v4
     with:
       token: {% raw %}${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}{% endraw %}
       issue-number: {% raw %}${{ github.event.issue.number }}{% endraw %}
       body: {% raw %}${{ steps.ai-response.outputs.response }}{% endraw %}

   ```

   > ⚠️ **Important:** Make sure this step is properly indented at the same level as the previous step. Both steps should be at the same indentation level under the `steps:` section.

1. And we're done! Commit the file directly to the `main` branch, then open the **Actions** tab and confirm the workflow appears.

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

- If the action does not appear in the **Actions** tab verify you put it in `.github/workflows/` directory with `.yml` extension

</details>

### ⌨️ Activity: Test the workflow

1. Navigate to the Issues tab and click **New issue**.
1. Create an issue with any title and body you'd like, or use these examples:

   **Title example:**

   ```text
   Login form throwing 500 errors on mobile
   ```

   **Body example:**

   ```markdown
   Getting 500 errors when trying to log in on my phone. It works sometimes but not always.
   ```

1. As you create the issue, you observe your workflow running in the **Actions** tab.
1. When the workflow completes, you should see a new comment on the issue with the AI Issue analysis.

<details>
<summary>Having trouble? 🤷</summary><br/>

- If the workflow didn’t run, confirm the trigger is `issues: [opened]` and you created a new issue (not edited an existing one).
- If the workflow failed to parse, check that the YAML indentation is correct and that all required fields are present.

</details>
